---
layout: post
title: Vim
categories:
- editor
- vim
---
* TOC
{:toc}

I've been a vim user for years. I keep trying different editors, but I always seem to make them behave like vim. So, invariably, I return to vim and wonder why I even left.  

**.vimrc** contains many setting/options and because it could be a which between having to tweak these settings, I usually find myself having to get reaquainted with them.

Here is a speel on my vim settings for quick reference.

# Cheat Sheet  

from inside surrounding symbols, such as `'`, `[`, etc

`di{` - deletes everything inside '{}'  
`ci[` - deletes everything inside '[]' and leave in insert mode  

 `\be` - open buffer explorer  

 `qa` - begin recording to register **a**  
 `q` - stop recording  
 `@a` - replace recording from register **a**


# Setup

## Package Manager

Install **Vundle**.

## Installing a vim Plugin

* Add the new plugin config line to your .vimrc in the Vundle section  
* run `:PluginInstall`  

Check that no error message appear  

# Adding new configurations

## Support for new File Types

Setting file type on a file extension  

```
BufNewFile,BufRead *.handlebar set filetype=html
```

## Javascript libraries syntax  

# General  

## Navigation

`(Ctrl-w)` - Navigate next window  
`(Ctrl-n)` - Navigate next buffer  
`(Ctrl-m)` - Navigate previous buffer  
`:bd` - Close current buffer

## Shell  

`:sh` - Open the shell
`$ exit` - Close shell and return to vim

## Folding  

```
nnoremap <silent> <Space> @=(foldlevel('.')?'za':"\<Space>")<CR>
vnoremap <Space> zf
```
These allow you to toggle to folding with <space> in normal mode.

# Plugin List

## Vundle  

`:PluginInstall` - Installs configured plugins
`:PluginClean` - Removed any plugins that have been deleted from .vimrc
`:PluginUpdate` - Updates all configured plugins
`:PluginList` - List all configured plugins

## You Complete Me  

``` sh
cd ~/.vim/bundle/YouCompleteMe
./install.py --clang-completer --tern-completer
```

`--clang-completer` is for c family languages  
`--tern-completer` is for javascript  

> Remember: YCM is a plugin with a compiled component. If you update YCM using Vundle and the ycm_core library APIs have changed (happens rarely), YCM will notify you to recompile it. You should then rerun the install process.  

`<F12>` - Goes to most sensible reference  
`<leader>jt` - Get object type  



## NERD Tree  

Side pane filesystem navigator  

`(Shift-F)` - Toggle NERD Tree  

`Bookmark` - Bookmarks the selected node  
`(Shift-B)` - Toggles Bookmarks  

`m` - Displays the NERD Tree. Allows you to create new files, etc. 

## Tag Bar  

`F8` - Toggle Tag bar  

## NERD Commenter  

(Ctrl-c, Ctrl-c) - Toggle comment  


## Fugitive  
Git wrapper 

`:Git <cmd>` - Pass any standard git command  

`GStatus` - open status window
    `-` will toggle state of selected file
    `<shift-c>` - commit staged files
    `<enter>` open selected file in current window

`Gvdiff` - vertical diff


[Screencast](http://vimcasts.org/episodes/fugitive-vim---a-complement-to-command-line-git/)  


## Airline  
--  


## Ctrl-P (search)

`(Ctrl-p)` - Open Search window


## Syntastic (Sytax Checker)

`:lopen` - open error window
`:lclose` - close error window


## UltiSnip  

```
let g:UltiSnipsSnippetDirectories=["UltiSnips", "my-ultisnips"]
```  
This tells UltiSnip to search the runtime path for these subdirectories for
snippets.  

`:UltiSnipEdit` - Open snip editor for the current file type.


## Surround  

For these, the cursor must be inside the thing you are surrounding.  

 `cs'"` - replaces `'` with `"`  
 `cs'<q>` - replaces `'` with `<q>`  
 `cst'` - replaces `tag` with `'`  
 `ds"` - delete surrounds

Visual mode (<Shift-v> for linewise visual mode) followed by `S<sometag>`  

[vim-surround](https://github.com/tpope/vim-surround)  



# References  



